# URL INSTANCA

KAO ARGUMENTI, MU SE DODAJE PATH

**ALI JA SAM VIDEO DA SE INSTANTICIRA, UZ DVA PARAMETRA:**

- STRING RELATIVNOG PATH-A

- STRING APSOLUTNOG PATH-A

```JAVASCRIPT

const url = new URL('/images/cat.jpg', 'http://localhost:7200/images/cat.jpg')

```

**[PROPERTIJI:](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL#Properties)**

- hash

Is a USVString containing a '#' followed by the fragment identifier of the URL.

- host

Is a USVString containing the domain (that is the hostname) followed by (if a port was specified) a ':' and the port of the URL.

- hostname

Is a USVString containing the domain of the URL.

- href

Is a USVString containing the whole URL.

- **origin** (Read only)

Returns a USVString containing the origin of the URL, that is its scheme, its domain and its port.

- password

Is a USVString containing the password specified before the domain name.

- pathname

Is a USVString containing an initial '/' followed by the path of the URL.

- port

Is a USVString containing the port number of the URL.

- protocol

Is a USVString containing the protocol scheme of the URL, including the final ':'.

- search

Is a USVString containing a '?' followed by the parameters of the URL.

- searchParams Read only

Returns a URLSearchParams object allowing access to the GET query arguments contained in the URL.

- username

Is a USVString containing the username specified before the domain name.

**[METODE](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL#Methods)**

- URL.toString()

Returns a USVString containing the whole URL. It is a synonym for URL.href, though it can't be used to modify the value.

- URL.toJSON()

Returns a USVString  containing the whole URL. It returns the same string as the href property.

**[STATICKE METODE:](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL#Methods)**

- URL.createObjectURL()

Returns a DOMString containing a unique blob URL, that is a URL with blob: as its scheme, followed by an opaque string uniquely identifying the object in the browser.

- URL.revokeObjectURL()

Revokes an object URL previously created using URL.createObjectURL().

## PRIMER

```JAVASCRIPT
const ankor = document.createElement('a');

//----------------
const urlA = new URL('/images/doll_car.jpg', 'http://localhost:7200/images/doll_car.jpg');
//----------------

ankor.href = urlA; // U ZAVISNOSTI OD origin-A, BICE DEFINISAN ODGOVARAJUCI PATH
                    // AKO JE ISTI ORIGIN, ONDA CE BITI DEFINISAN RELATIVNI PATH

ankor.textContent = "slika";
document.body.append(ankor);

console.log(urlA);
```

A STAMPANA U KONZOLI **URL** INSTANCA IZGLEDA OVAKO:

```JAVASCRIPT
URL

hash: ""
host: "localhost:7200"
hostname: "localhost"
href: "http://localhost:7200/images/doll_car.jpg"
origin: "http://localhost:7200"
password: ""
pathname: "/images/doll_car.jpg"
port: "7200"
protocol: "http:"
search: ""
searchParams: URLSearchParams {}
username: ""
__proto__: URL
```
