# RESOLVERI

RESOLVERI RESOLVE-UJE, SKORO SVE STO MOZE BITI VALUE: ENUMS QUERIES, MUTATIONS, INTERFACES, UNIONS; SVE STO EVENTUALLY MOZE BITI SOME TYPE OF VALUE

ONI SU POPUT REST-OVIH CONTROLLER-A, ALI UMESTO RESOLVINGA ONI RESOLVE-UJU TYPE-OVE ALL WAY DOWN

DAKLE U RESOLVERIMA JA PRICAM SA DATA SOURCE-OM (DATBASE-OM)

STA TO ZNACI ALL WAY DOWN

>>>>  What does that mean? Well therefore, resolvers resolving a type, and a type has a field that's referring to another type, and then that type has a field that's referring to another type. You have to have a resolver for every single type all the way down, so it resolves all the way down depending on the query that came in. So if the query asks for those connections, I want this type that refers to this type, that refers to this type, then you have to have resolvers for every single level.

ONI SU ODGOVORNI ZA RETRIEVING DATA, DATA MOZE BITI BILO GDE, NE SAMO U DATABSE, MOZE BITI IN MEMORY (REDIS)

AS LONG IT FULFILS SHAPE, THAN IT'S GOOD

## SVAK IQUERY I MUTATION, KOJI IMA TVOJA SCHEMA, TAKODJE MORA IMAT IRESOLVER, KOJI RETURN-UJE SPECIFICIRANI TYPE

AKO POGLEDAM VEZBU IZ PROSLOG FOLDERA

TAMO SI SPECIFCIRAO DVA QUERY TYPE-A, I TO SU BILI product I products; E PA ZA NJIH TI MORAS NAPISATI ISTOIMENE RESOLVERE

ISTO VAZI I ZA MUTATION TYPES

AKO STARTUJES SERVER I APPOLO NE NEADDJE RESOLVERE, ILI OBRNUTO, AKO IMAS RESOLVERE A NEMAS RELATED TYPE-OVE, IMACES ERROR ODNSNO BREAK KOJI CE TI UPRAVO RECI STA NE VALJA

## TYPE-OVI NA FIELD-OVIMA TYPE-OV, TAKODJE CESTO IMAJU RESOLVER-E

PRIMER: TVOJ type Product IAM FIELD id SA TYPE-OM ID!

>>>> MongoDB doesn't have a **id** property, it has an **_id** property. So if I just query the database and return that object, and I'm expecting an ID property back, cuz that's what the query asked for. It'll break cuz there's no ID property there. So you'd have to write a resolver for this field on product that grabs product._ID and returns that.

## DOLAZECI QUERY, KOJI CE SE RESOLVERI RUN-OVATI, I KOJI MREDOM

PRIMER

POSMATRAJ OVO U PLAYGROUND-U

```
{
  myCat {

    name
    age

  }

}

```

GORE CE SE PRVO RUNN-OVATI myCat RESOLER, A ZATIM AKO JE name RESOLVER I ON CE BITI RUNED, NAKON; A PARALELNO I SNJIM I age AKO JE U PITANJU RESOLVER; ZASTO PARALELENO? ZATO STO SU SIBLINGS (name I age)

